README.md, before:

# KinaseFocusedFragmentLibrary

## Exploring the chemical space of kinase inhibitors: Subpocket-based fragmentation for data-driven recombination

### Introduction
Protein kinases play a crucial role in many cell signaling processes, making them one of the most important families of drug targets.
Fragment-based drug design has proven useful as an approach to develop novel kinase inhibitors. However, fragment-based methods are usually limited to a knowledge-driven approach of optimizing a focused set of fragments. 
Here, we present a data-driven fragmentation and recombination approach instead. 
A novel computational fragmentation method was implemented, which splits known kinase inhibitors into fragments with respect to the subpockets that they occupy. Thereby, a fragment library with several pools, representing the subpockets, is created.
This fragment library enables an in-depth analysis of the chemical space of known kinase inhibitors, and is used to recombine fragments in order to generate novel potential inhibitors.

##### Fragmentation

For each input kinase-ligand complex, the kinase binding pocket is divided into six subpockets. The ligands are fragmented according to these subpockets, and a fragment library with several pools is created, where each pool corresponds to one subpocket and contains the fragments that were assigned to this subpocket.

<img src ="./docs/img/subpocket_centers.png" width = "600" align="left"> 

<br clear="all" />

##### Recombination

Every possible fragment recombination is enumerated in order to create a virtual combinatorial compound library. The fragments are reconnected only at the broken bonds, while preserving the original subpocket connection of each bond. 

### Usage
#### Dependencies

Create and activate conda environment containing all required packages:
```bash
conda env create -f devtools/conda-envs/environment.yml
conda activate kffl
```

Download and install `kinase_focused_fragment_library` package:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/volkamerlab/KinaseFocusedFragmentLibrary.git
pip install -e KinaseFocusedFragmentLibrary
```

#### Input

Kinase-ligand structures, and two CSV files containing metadata are downloaded from the [KLIFS database](https://klifs.vu-compmedchem.nl/index.php) using the following Search options:

<img src ="./docs/img/klifs_download.png" width = "800" align="left"> 

<br clear="all" />

The downloaded data should have the following folder structure:

    └── KLIFS_download
        ├── KLIFS_export.csv
        ├── overview.csv
        └── HUMAN     	               # species name  
            ├── AAK1                   # kinase name
            │   ├── 4wsq_altA_chainA   # PDB code, alternate model, chain
            │   │   ├── ligand.mol2
            │   │   ├── pocket.mol2
            │   │   └── ...
            │   └── ...
            └── ...

#### Preprocessing

```bash
kffl-preprocessing -f /path/to/KLIFS_download -o put/path/to/FragmentLibrary
```
* The output file ```/path/to/KLIFS/data/KLIFS_download/filtered_ligands.csv``` contains metadata on all ligands that were chosen for the fragmentation. 
* Metadata on the discarded ligands is written to ```put/path/to/FragmentLibrary/discarded_ligands/preprocessing.csv```.

#### Fragmentation

```bash
kffl-fragmentation -f /path/to/KLIFS_download -o /path/to/FragmentLibrary
```
* A picture of each fragmented ligand is drawn and stored in ```/path/to/FragmentLibrary/fragmented_molecules/```
* Metadata on discarded ligands is written to ```/path/to/FragmentLibrary/discarded_ligands/fragmentation.csv```.
* The fragment library is written to  ```/path/to/FragmentLibrary```. 

For each subpocket, one folder containing one SD file exists:

    └── FragmentLibrary/
        ├── AP
        │   └── AP.sdf
        ├── B1
        │   └── B1.sdf
        ├── B2
        │   └── B2.sdf
        ├── discarded_ligands
        │   ├── fragmentation.csv
        │   └── preprocessing.csv        
        ├── FP
        │   ├── FP.sdf
        ├── fragmented_molecules
        │   ├── 4wsq_altA_chainA.png
        │   └── ...
        ├── GA
        │   └── GA.sdf
        ├── SE
        │   └── SE.sdf
        └── X
            └── X.sdf

In addition to the standard fields of the SDF format (3D coordinates of each atom and bonds between atoms), the files include the following associated data for each fragment:

* PDB code of the original kinase-ligand complex and of the ligand itself
* Chain and alternate model of this complex in KLIFS
* Kinase, kinase family, and kinase group
* Subpocket of each atom, including dummy atoms
* BRICS environment type for each atom (with dummy atoms having 'na' assigned)

#### Fragment analysis

```bash
kffl-fragment-analysis TBA
```

Jupyter notebooks for analyzing the fragment library are stored in ```kinase_focused_fragment_library/analysis/fragment_analysis/```.

#### Recombination

To reduce the number of fragments in the fragment library using Butina Clustering, run the notebook

```kinase_focused_fragment_library/analysis/fragment_analysis/cluster_centroids.ipynb```.

The recombination step should be performed on a cluster:

```bash
kffl-recombination -f /path/to/FragmentLibrary -o /path/to/CombinatorialLibrary -s AP -d 4
```
* The SDF files in the ```/path/to/FragmentLibrary``` are used as input for the recombination, while the above folder structure and file names are expected.
* The ```-s``` option specifies one or multiple subpockets from which the recombination procedure will start, meaning that all resulting molecules will contain a fragment coming from this subpocket/these subpockets (default: all subpockets). 
* The ```-d``` option specifies the maximum number of fragments to combine (default: 6).
* Multiple binary (pickle) files are written to ```/path/to/CombinatorialLibrary/results/```, which contain pickled objects representing the recombined molecules. For each molecule, this object contains the fragment IDs and the bonds (as tuples of atom IDs) between the fragments. 

#### Recombined molecule analysis

Download file ```chembl_25_chemreps.txt``` here: https://chembl.gitbook.io/chembl-interface-documentation/downloads.

Standardize ChEMBL data in this file using 
```bash
kinase_focused_fragment_library/analysis/ligand_analysis/standardize_chembl.py -f chembl_25_chemreps.txt -o chembl_standardized_inchi.txt
```

The analysis step should be performed on a cluster:

```bash
kffl-ligand-analysis -f /path/to/FragmentLibrary -klifs /path/to/KLIFS/data -chembl chembl_standardized_inchi.txt -o /path/to/CombinatorialLibrary
```

* Only in this step, the recombined molecules are constructed as actual Molecule objects. 
* These molecules are then compared to the molecules given in ```chembl_standardized_inchi.txt``` (which should contain one standardized InChI string per line) and to the original KLIFS ligands from which the fragments were built.
* For each molecule, an object is stored in the file ```/path/to/CombinatorialLibrary/cominatorial_library.pickle``` which includes the representation of the molecule as created in the recombination step, its number of heavy atoms, as well as binary values describing whether the molecule
  * fulfills Lipinski's rule of five,
  * has a molecular weight <= 500,
  * has a logP <= 5,
  * has a number of hydrogen bond donors <=5 and acceptors <= 10,
  * was found in the original ligands,
  * is a true substructure of an original ligand,
  * was found in ChEMBL.

* Jupyter notebooks for analyzing these objects are stored in ```kinase_focused_fragment_library/analysis/ligand_analysis/```, including a ```quick_start.ipynb``` introducing the basic steps for working with the combinatorial library data.

Commit message:

README: Move frag centroid step to lig analysis

README.md, after:

# KinaseFocusedFragmentLibrary

## Exploring the chemical space of kinase inhibitors: Subpocket-based fragmentation for data-driven recombination

### Introduction
Protein kinases play a crucial role in many cell signaling processes, making them one of the most important families of drug targets.
Fragment-based drug design has proven useful as an approach to develop novel kinase inhibitors. However, fragment-based methods are usually limited to a knowledge-driven approach of optimizing a focused set of fragments. 
Here, we present a data-driven fragmentation and recombination approach instead. 
A novel computational fragmentation method was implemented, which splits known kinase inhibitors into fragments with respect to the subpockets that they occupy. Thereby, a fragment library with several pools, representing the subpockets, is created.
This fragment library enables an in-depth analysis of the chemical space of known kinase inhibitors, and is used to recombine fragments in order to generate novel potential inhibitors.

##### Fragmentation

For each input kinase-ligand complex, the kinase binding pocket is divided into six subpockets. The ligands are fragmented according to these subpockets, and a fragment library with several pools is created, where each pool corresponds to one subpocket and contains the fragments that were assigned to this subpocket.

<img src ="./docs/img/subpocket_centers.png" width = "600" align="left"> 

<br clear="all" />

##### Recombination

Every possible fragment recombination is enumerated in order to create a virtual combinatorial compound library. The fragments are reconnected only at the broken bonds, while preserving the original subpocket connection of each bond. 

### Usage
#### Dependencies

Create and activate conda environment containing all required packages:
```bash
conda env create -f devtools/conda-envs/environment.yml
conda activate kffl
```

Download and install `kinase_focused_fragment_library` package:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/volkamerlab/KinaseFocusedFragmentLibrary.git
pip install -e KinaseFocusedFragmentLibrary
```

#### Input

Kinase-ligand structures, and two CSV files containing metadata are downloaded from the [KLIFS database](https://klifs.vu-compmedchem.nl/index.php) using the following Search options:

<img src ="./docs/img/klifs_download.png" width = "800" align="left"> 

<br clear="all" />

The downloaded data should have the following folder structure:

    └── KLIFS_download
        ├── KLIFS_export.csv
        ├── overview.csv
        └── HUMAN     	               # species name  
            ├── AAK1                   # kinase name
            │   ├── 4wsq_altA_chainA   # PDB code, alternate model, chain
            │   │   ├── ligand.mol2
            │   │   ├── pocket.mol2
            │   │   └── ...
            │   └── ...
            └── ...

#### Preprocessing

```bash
kffl-preprocessing -f /path/to/KLIFS_download -o put/path/to/FragmentLibrary
```
* The output file ```/path/to/KLIFS/data/KLIFS_download/filtered_ligands.csv``` contains metadata on all ligands that were chosen for the fragmentation. 
* Metadata on the discarded ligands is written to ```put/path/to/FragmentLibrary/discarded_ligands/preprocessing.csv```.

#### Fragmentation

```bash
kffl-fragmentation -f /path/to/KLIFS_download -o /path/to/FragmentLibrary
```
* A picture of each fragmented ligand is drawn and stored in ```/path/to/FragmentLibrary/fragmented_molecules/```
* Metadata on discarded ligands is written to ```/path/to/FragmentLibrary/discarded_ligands/fragmentation.csv```.
* The fragment library is written to  ```/path/to/FragmentLibrary```. 

For each subpocket, one folder containing one SD file exists:

    └── FragmentLibrary/
        ├── AP
        │   └── AP.sdf
        ├── B1
        │   └── B1.sdf
        ├── B2
        │   └── B2.sdf
        ├── discarded_ligands
        │   ├── fragmentation.csv
        │   └── preprocessing.csv        
        ├── FP
        │   ├── FP.sdf
        ├── fragmented_molecules
        │   ├── 4wsq_altA_chainA.png
        │   └── ...
        ├── GA
        │   └── GA.sdf
        ├── SE
        │   └── SE.sdf
        └── X
            └── X.sdf

In addition to the standard fields of the SDF format (3D coordinates of each atom and bonds between atoms), the files include the following associated data for each fragment:

* PDB code of the original kinase-ligand complex and of the ligand itself
* Chain and alternate model of this complex in KLIFS
* Kinase, kinase family, and kinase group
* Subpocket of each atom, including dummy atoms
* BRICS environment type for each atom (with dummy atoms having 'na' assigned)

#### Fragment analysis

Necessary step to proceed with recombination step: 
To reduce the number of fragments in the fragment library using Butina Clustering, run the notebook

```kinase_focused_fragment_library/analysis/fragment_analysis/cluster_centroids.ipynb```.

Further Jupyter notebooks for analyzing the fragment library are stored in ```kinase_focused_fragment_library/analysis/fragment_analysis/```.

#### Recombination

The recombination step should be performed on a cluster:

```bash
kffl-recombination -f /path/to/FragmentLibrary -o /path/to/CombinatorialLibrary -s AP -d 4
```
* The SDF files in the ```/path/to/FragmentLibrary``` are used as input for the recombination, while the above folder structure and file names are expected.
* The ```-s``` option specifies one or multiple subpockets from which the recombination procedure will start, meaning that all resulting molecules will contain a fragment coming from this subpocket/these subpockets (default: all subpockets). 
* The ```-d``` option specifies the maximum number of fragments to combine (default: 6).
* Multiple binary (pickle) files are written to ```/path/to/CombinatorialLibrary/results/```, which contain pickled objects representing the recombined molecules. For each molecule, this object contains the fragment IDs and the bonds (as tuples of atom IDs) between the fragments. 

#### Recombined molecule analysis

Download file ```chembl_25_chemreps.txt``` here: https://chembl.gitbook.io/chembl-interface-documentation/downloads.

Standardize ChEMBL data in this file using 
```bash
kinase_focused_fragment_library/analysis/ligand_analysis/standardize_chembl.py -f chembl_25_chemreps.txt -o chembl_standardized_inchi.txt
```

The analysis step should be performed on a cluster:

```bash
kffl-ligand-analysis -f /path/to/FragmentLibrary -klifs /path/to/KLIFS/data -chembl chembl_standardized_inchi.txt -o /path/to/CombinatorialLibrary
```

* Only in this step, the recombined molecules are constructed as actual Molecule objects. 
* These molecules are then compared to the molecules given in ```chembl_standardized_inchi.txt``` (which should contain one standardized InChI string per line) and to the original KLIFS ligands from which the fragments were built.
* For each molecule, an object is stored in the file ```/path/to/CombinatorialLibrary/cominatorial_library.pickle``` which includes the representation of the molecule as created in the recombination step, its number of heavy atoms, as well as binary values describing whether the molecule
  * fulfills Lipinski's rule of five,
  * has a molecular weight <= 500,
  * has a logP <= 5,
  * has a number of hydrogen bond donors <=5 and acceptors <= 10,
  * was found in the original ligands,
  * is a true substructure of an original ligand,
  * was found in ChEMBL.

* Jupyter notebooks for analyzing these objects are stored in ```kinase_focused_fragment_library/analysis/ligand_analysis/```, including a ```quick_start.ipynb``` introducing the basic steps for working with the combinatorial library data.
